











































CSCE771_001_Fall2020


University of South Carolina 
College of Engineering and Computing 

 
CSCE 771: Computer Processing of Natural Language 

Fall 2020 
 

Section 001: Hybrid 
Asynchronous Online (via Blackboard),  

Synchronous (via Microsoft Team COTEAM-BIPLAVS-CSCE-771-001-FALL-2020),  
In class – only when announced 

 
Biplav Srivastava, Ph.D. 
Professor, AI Institute,  
Computer Science & Engg., 
541 Main St, Horizon 1, 4th 
Floor, Univ. South Carolina, 
Columbia, SC 29208 
(518) 496-0128  
biplav.s@sc.edu 

Course Website: https://blackboard.sc.edu  
Supplementary Website: 
https://sites.google.com/site/biplavsrivastava/teaching/csce-
771-computer-processing-of-natural-language 
Teaching Assistant: N/A 

Office Hours:  TTh 11:30 am – 12:30 pm or by appointment  

Class Timings: MW 3:55 pm – 5:10 pm 

 
Course Syllabus 

 
Catalog Description 
This will be an advanced course on computer-based processing of communication between people 
(languages) with a focus on text (NLP), and appreciation of multi-modal communication involving speech 
and images. The course will have lessons on parsing of input, representation of syntax and semantics, 
and analysis to derive insights. It will explain learning and reasoning based methods for extracting 
entities, disambiguating and linking them, and applying them for real-world problems. We will also discuss 
issues in building advanced systems for conversation (“chatbots”) and machine translation, and ethical 
concerns while testing and fielding them with people. 
 
Course Outcomes 
 
L1: Appreciate diversity and similarity in natural languages – text, speech and visual; focus of course will, 
however, be text (NLP) and English 
L2: Understand issues related to data and tools. Experiment design, Metrics for evaluation and to detect 
bias, Methods to build trust in processing – transparent assessment, Providing explanations for output 
L3: Able to perform data processing: (a) Structured data representation from unstructured text; (b) Extract 
entities and relationships; (c) Extract contexts; (d) representation learning – word embedding 
L4: Understand AI methods in NLP: (a) Learning methods – including language models, (b) Reasoning, 
(c) Representation – knowledge graphs/ ontology 
L5: Understand NLP applications – (a) Document intelligence: sentiment, translation; (b) collaborative 
assistants 
 
All learning outcomes in this primarily Distributed Learning course, with possibility for in-class experience 
attendance when safely possible, are equivalent to face-to-face (F2F) version of this course. 
 
Prerequisites 
Experience with a first course on Artificial Intelligence is desirable, example: CSCE 580. 
 
Students without this course may still enroll knowing that necessary AI background can be found in the 
standard AI book, “AI – A Modern Approach”; http://aima.cs.berkeley.edu/. Relevant material is in 
chapters 3,4,5 and 6. 
 
 



CSCE 771 (Srivastava) Syllabus 
 
 

Page 2 

 
 
Textbooks and Reading Materials 

1. The required textbook for this course is: Speech and Language Processing (3rd ed. draft) 
Dan Jurafsky and James H. Martin 
Available online at: https://web.stanford.edu/~jurafsky/slp3/  

2. The optional reference book, specially suggested for students without CSCE 580, is: 
Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach (Fourth edition, 2020) 
Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig 
http://aima.cs.berkeley.edu/  
ISBN-13: 978-0134610993 

3. Research Papers 
Links to PDFs will be advertised in class material 

4. Open Datasets - Illustration 
a. Text of legislations - LegiScan, https://legiscan.com/ 
b. COVID-19 research papers - https://www.kaggle.com/allen-institute-for-ai/CORD-19-

research-challenge/ ; https://github.com/biplav-s/covid19-info/wiki/Important-Information-
About-COVID19  

c. Text of patents, Google patents - https://patents.google.com/  
 
All readings/materials comply with copyright and fair use policies. 
 
Required Software 
In order to access course materials and complete the course assignments you must have access to: 

• A personal computer (PC) or laptop with the Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint). 
• The Internet (for using email, browsing the web, accessing the course website, and submitting 

assignments) 

• Programming environment setup using open source. Python using Jupyter Notebook or Java 
using Eclipse will be the supported languages. 

• For any proprietary tool, please consult the instructor. As a general rule, the instructor will ensure 
that no student may get an undue advantage due to usage of a particular technology that is 
unavailable to others.   

 
Course Format 
This course will be delivered asynchronously through Blackboard and synchronously via Microsoft 
Team (COTEAM-BIPLAVS-CSCE-771-001-FALL-2020). The primary medium of course delivery will be 
online with a mix of pre-recorded videos and live online lecture. No student needs to come to physical 
class if they do not want to. 
 
The instructor will attempt to familiarize with students and be on campus as much is safely possible. If 
conditions improve and students favor, we will allow a small fraction of students to come to class (like 5-
10%) on a rotating basis. Hence, in class will be only when announced and only for interested students. 
In class attendance will have no impact on course outcome. 
  

• Student-to-Instructor (S2I) Interaction: Students will listen/view lectures online via videos and 
interact with the professor through email, MS Teams or Blackboard Collaborate Ultra, and 
(possibly) discussion boards. The professor will post regular announcements, provide individual 
feedback to students, and hold online office hours via MS Teams or Blackboard Collaborate Ultra. 
 

• Students-to-Student (S2S) Interaction: Students will engage in discussions through email, the 
discussion board, and MS Teams or Blackboard Collaborate Ultra.   
 

• Student-to-Content (S2C) Interaction: Students will engage with course content by completing 
assignments and participating in discussion boards and video conference meetings.   



CSCE 771 (Srivastava) Syllabus 
 
 

Page 3 

 
The instructor will reply to all feedback in a reasonable amount of time; the same is expected of the 
students. Specifically, 
 

• Communication: Responses to email communication and questions will be provided within 48 
hours. In subject, please prefix with “CSEC771: ”If you have a question about any deliverable 
(e.g., project, assignment, presentation) with a deadline, you are advised to email me at least 5 
days before it is due so that there is sufficient time between response and deadline. 

 
• Test Grading: Grades for assignments will be returned within 1 week of due date. 

 
Time Commitment and Planning 
Any university graduate course requires a large amount of work outside of lecture. I assume that when 
you register for this course you will allocate an average of at least 8-10 hours per week, in addition to 
lectures, to study the textbook material, complete the homework assignments, and prepare for course 
project. It is your responsibility to manage your workload. If you procrastinate starting your assignments, 
you may find that you do not have enough time to complete the project or assignments, or that a 
technology problem may prevent you from completing your assignment. Note that not being able to 
access a computer or network will not be considered an acceptable excuse for submitting your 
assignment late. 
 
Assessments 
 

• Project: 50% for project report and code, plus 10% for elevator presentation to class 
o Analysis project OR 

§ Dataset must be from given catalog 
§ Use NLP methods to present new insights 

o New method (Research) project  
§ Problem to be discussed with instructor 
§ Example: Translate from a mixed language to standard English 

• Quiz: 20% 
o At least 4 based on preceding lectures 

• Exam: Research paper reading (10%) and presentation to class (10)% - Total 20% 
o Read a paper accepted at a top NLP / AI conference: ACL 2019-2020, AAAI 2019-2020,  

IJCAI 2019-2020, NeurIPS 2019-2020. Make a 1-slide summary based on given 
presentation template. 

o Present a 1-slide summary to class (10%) 
 
Your overall final course letter grade will be determined by your grades on the following assessments.   
 

Tests 1000 points 
• Course Project – report, in-class presentation 600 points 
• Quiz – best of 4 from 5 200 points 
• Final Exam – Paper summary, in-class presentation 200 points 

Total 1000 points 
 
Your final grade is based on the total points you have earned over the semester. Letter grades will be 
assigned as follows:  

 
A    =  [900-1000] 
B+  =  [870-899] 
B    =  [800-869] 
C+  =  [770-799] 



CSCE 771 (Srivastava) Syllabus 
 
 

Page 4 

C    =  [700-769] 
D+  =  [670-699] 
D    =  [600-669] 
F     =  [0-599] 

 
If everyone performs very well, I do not have a problem with assigning everyone A's. However, poor 
performance (particularly failure to do project on time) will result in a low grade.  
 
Important Note Regarding Grade Appeals 
My teaching assistant or I will grade all assignments. If you have a question about a grade you have 
received, or you believe that you were graded incorrectly, please see me during office hours or set up an 
online appointment.  If you wish to appeal an assignment grade you must do so within one (1) week of my 
posting the grade to Blackboard.  If you want to make a case for re-grading your work based on another 
student’s grade on the same task, I will review and then re-grade your work as well as the other student’s 
work entirely from scratch. 
 
Missing a Quiz: There will be 5 quizzes on announced dates. A student’s lowest score from the 5 will be 
removed and the rest will be considered for assessment. If a person misses 1 quiz, the score of that quiz 
will be ignored. If a person misses more quizzes, this will impact their assessment. 

Missing slot on project or paper presentation: Unless the instructor is informed 1 week in advance, 
missing the presentation slot will lead to a zero on presentation component. 

Missing the project report: A delay of 7 days will be allowed with a penalty of 20% (200 points). No 
point will be awarded for any delay beyond a week for project report.   

 
Request for Accommodations 
The University of South Carolina is committed to providing access to programs and services for qualified 
students with disabilities. If you are a student with a disability and require accommodation to participate 
and complete requirements for this class, notify me immediately and contact the Student Disability 
Resource Center (http://www.sa.sc.edu/sds, 1523 Greene Street, LeConte College Room 112A, 803-777-
6142, sasds@mailbox.sc.edu) for verification of eligibility and determination of specific accommodations. 
In addition, please provide me the required accommodation letter from the Student Disability Resource 
Center.  All course materials are available in alternative format upon request. 
 
Academic Integrity  
University policies and procedures regarding academic integrity are defined in policy STAF 6.25, 
Academic Responsibility - The Honor Code (see http://www.sc.edu/policies/ppm/staf625.pdf). Prohibited 
behaviors include 
plagiarism, cheating, falsification, and complicity. All potential Honor Code violations will be reported to 
the Office of Student Conduct and Academic Integrity, which has the authority to implement non-
academic penalties as described in STAF 6.25. Academic penalties for Honor Code violations in this 
course range from a zero on the assignment to failure of the course. 
 
In reference to this course, students are expected to do their own work when assignments require 
individual work.  For example, students may not copy the work of others, either manually or electronically, 
under these conditions.  Further, students who allow their work to be copied by others risk violation of the 
University Honor Code.  If situations arise in which the application of the University Honor Code is 
unclear, students should seek the interpretation of the instructor. 
The faculty takes violations of the University Honor Code (http://www.sc.edu/policies/ppm/staf625.pdf) 
seriously.  Students are encouraged to review the Honor Code and to understand the consequences of 
any action that is proven to be a violation of the code. 
 
Remember that the first tenet of the Carolinian Creed is, “I will practice personal and academic 
integrity.” 


