











































Example-CSCE210_002_Fall2020 


University of South Carolina 
College of Engineering and Computing 

 
CSCE 210: Computer Hardware Foundations 

Fall 2020 
 

Section 002: Asynchronous Online (via Blackboard) 
 

Matt Thatcher, Ph.D. 
Professor and Chair 
Computer Science and Engineering 
2203 Storey Innovation Center  
(803) 777-2895 
thatche1@mailbox.sc.edu  

Course Website: https://blackboard.sc.edu  

Teaching Assistant: N/A 

Office Hours:  TTh 11:30 am – 12:30 pm  
or by appointment via email or MS Teams 

 
Course Syllabus 

 
Catalog Description 
Number representation, data formats, CPU and memory organization, assembly language, I/O and peripherals, 
computer networks. 
 
Course Outcomes 
1. Describe the major storage formats for data 
2. Represent integers, floating point numbers, and character data 
3. Describe the major components of a computer system and state their functions and purpose 
4. Demonstrate the ability to program in assembly language 
5. Explain the fundamental concepts and implementation options for input and output 
 
All learning outcomes in this Distributed Learning course are equivalent to face-to-face (F2F) version of this course. 
 
Prerequisites 
CSCE 145, 204, 205, 206, or 207 
 
Required Textbook 
The required textbook for this course is:   

• The Architecture of Computer Hardware, Systems Software, & Networking: An Information Technology 
Approach, 5th Edition, by Irv Englander (January 2014) 
Publisher: Wiley (ISBN: 978-1-118-32263-5) (Paperback) 
 

You may find this book at the Official USC Campus Bookstore or at on-line retailers such as Amazon.com or 
BarnesandNoble.com.  You may also consider purchasing the textbook as an e-textbook from Amazon.com or 
from the publisher’s website: http://www.wiley.com/WileyCDA/WileyTitle/productCd-EHEP002899.html 
 
All readings/materials comply with copyright and fair use policies. 
 
Required Software 
In order to access course materials and complete the course assignments you must have access to: 

• A personal computer (PC) or laptop with the Microsoft Office Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint). 

• The Internet (for using email, browsing the web, accessing the course website, and submitting 
assignments). 

 



CSCE 210 (Thatcher) Syllabus 
 
 

Page 2 

Course Format 
This course will be delivered asynchronously through Blackboard. 
  

• Student-to-Instructor (S2I) Interaction: Students will listen/view lectures online via videos and interact 
with the professor through email, MS Teams or Blackboard Collaborate Ultra, and (possibly) discussion 
boards. The professor will post regular announcements, provide individual feedback to students, and hold 
online office hours via MS Teams or Blackboard Collaborate Ultra. 
 

• Students-to-Student (S2S) Interaction: Students will engage in discussions through email, the discussion 
board, and MS Teams or Blackboard Collaborate Ultra.   
 

• Student-to-Content (S2C) Interaction: Students will engage with course content by completing assignments 
and participating in discussion boards and video conference meetings.   

 
The instructor will reply to all feedback in a reasonable amount of time; the same is expected of the students. 
Specifically, 
 

• Communication: Responses to email communication and questions will be provided within 24 hours. 
 

• Test Grading: Grades for tests will be returned within 1 week of due date. 
 
Time Commitment and Planning 
Any university course requires a large amount of work outside of lecture. I assume that when you register for this 
course you will allocate an average of at least 8-10 hours per week, in addition to asynchronous lectures, to study 
the textbook, complete the homework assignments, and prepare for tests. It is your responsibility to manage your 
workload. If you procrastinate starting your assignments, you may find that you do not have enough time to 
complete the assignments, or that a technology problem may prevent you from completing your assignment. Note 
that not being able to access a computer or network will not be considered an acceptable excuse for submitting 
your assignment late. 
 
Assessments 
Your overall final course letter grade will be determined by your grades on the following assessments.   
 

Tests 1000 points 
• Test 1 250 points 
• Test 2 250 points 
• Test 3 250 points 
• Final Exam 250 points 

Total 1000 points 

 
Your final grade is based on the total points you have earned over the semester. Therefore, individual assignments 
are not curved, and all points for all assignments are weighted equally. Letter grades will be assigned as follows:  

 
A  = [900-1000] 
B+  = [870-899] 
B  = [800-869] 
C+  = [770-799] 
C  = [700-769] 
D+  = [670-699] 
D  = [600-669] 
F    = [0-599] 

 



CSCE 210 (Thatcher) Syllabus 
 
 

Page 3 

If everyone performs very well, I do not have a problem with assigning everyone A's. However, poor performance 
(particularly failure to turn in assignments on time) will result in a low grade.  
 
Important Note Regarding Grade Appeals 
My teaching assistant or I will grade all assignments. If you have a question about a grade you have received, or 
you believe that you were graded incorrectly, please see me during office hours or set up an online appointment.  
If you wish to appeal an assignment grade you must do so within one (1) week of my posting the grade to 
Blackboard.  If you want to make a case for re-grading your work based on another student’s grade on the same 
assignment, I will review and then re-grade your work as well as the other student’s work entirely from scratch. 
 
Summary of Assessments 
• Homework Assignments (not graded!):  You will be required to complete, but not turn in for a grade, eight (8) 

Homework Assignments (HWs) that will emphasize both the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the course 
material and provide you with feedback on how well you are mastering the material.  These HWs may be 
completed individually or in teams of students.  Solutions to the HWs will be made available to you via the course 
website; however, you should make a good faith effort to solve the HW questions correctly before reviewing the 
solutions.  Again, you will not turn in the HWs for a grade.  However, I reserve the right to collect the assignments 
in the future if I think things are going poorly.   

• Activities (not graded!): You will be required to complete, but not turn in for a grade six (6) Activities during the 
semester.  The Activities may be completed individually or in small teams of students.  Solutions to the Activities 
will be made available to you via the course website; however, you should make a good faith effort to solve the 
Activity questions correctly before reviewing the solutions.  Again, you will not turn in the Activities for a grade.  
However, I reserve the right to collect the assignments in the future if I think things are going poorly.  

• Tests: There will be three (3) Tests during the semester and a Final Exam at the end of the semester.  All tests will 
be completed remotely and submitted online.  All Tests must be completed individually.  Each Test may include 
multiple-choice, fill-in-the-blank, short answer, and essay questions taken largely from the textbook and in-class 
discussions.  More details about the logistics of test-taking will be discussed in class. 

 
Missing a Test: Test dates are noted on the Course Schedule.  You could miss a Test for three reasons. Here 
are the policies for each: 

1. You have a scheduled conflict that you can identify by the second week of classes. For example, you may 
have a Dean’s Excuse for official University athletic team and school-sponsored organizations.  In this 
case, you will be allowed to take the Test early and only if you tell me by the end of the second week of 
class.  

2. An emergency comes up before the Test. For example, a family emergency that prevents you from taking 
the Test. In this case, you may take the Test at another time only if  

a. You discuss the problem with me or at least email me before the Test AND  

b. You have written documentation that the emergency occurred. Written documentation may include 
an Athletic Department Excused Absence memo, note on letterhead paper from a physician, hospital 
discharge paperwork, family member obituary notice, etc.  The written documentation must include 
the phone number of someone who can verify the emergency. We will set the make-up time very 
soon after the regular Test time, and you will likely get a different Test.  

3. You sleep through the Test, you do not contact me before the Test, or you cannot provide satisfactory 
proof of one of the above reasons. In this case, you will receive a zero on the Test.  

 
Request for Accommodations 
The University of South Carolina is committed to providing access to programs and services for qualified students 
with disabilities. If you are a student with a disability and require accommodation to participate and complete 
requirements for this class, notify me immediately and contact the Student Disability Resource Center 
(http://www.sa.sc.edu/sds, 1523 Greene Street, LeConte College Room 112A, 803-777-6142, 



CSCE 210 (Thatcher) Syllabus 
 
 

Page 4 

sasds@mailbox.sc.edu) for verification of eligibility and determination of specific accommodations. In addition, 
please provide me the required accommodation letter from the Student Disability Resource Center.  All course 
materials are available in alternative format upon request. 
 
Academic Integrity  
University policies and procedures regarding academic integrity are defined in policy STAF 6.25, Academic 
Responsibility - The Honor Code (see http://www.sc.edu/policies/ppm/staf625.pdf). Prohibited behaviors include 
plagiarism, cheating, falsification, and complicity. All potential Honor Code violations will be reported to the Office 
of Student Conduct and Academic Integrity, which has the authority to implement non-academic penalties as 
described in STAF 6.25. Academic penalties for Honor Code violations in this course range from a zero on the 
assignment to failure of the course. 
 
In reference to this course, students are expected to do their own work when assignments require individual work.  
For example, students may not copy the work of others, either manually or electronically, under these conditions.  
Further, students who allow their work to be copied by others risk violation of the University Honor Code.  If 
situations arise in which the application of the University Honor Code is unclear, students should seek the 
interpretation of the instructor. 
The faculty takes violations of the University Honor Code (http://www.sc.edu/policies/ppm/staf625.pdf) seriously.  
Students are encouraged to review the Honor Code and to understand the consequences of any action that is 
proven to be a violation of the code. 
 
Remember that the first tenet of the Carolinian Creed is, “I will practice personal and academic integrity.” 
 
 
 


